---
title: "Terminal"
description: "story of a helpless mind"
date: 2022-01-18T13:00:00-0400
author: "Ioannes Šubić"
featured_image: "/images/terminal/featured.jpeg"
tags: ["narrative", "body", "mind"]
draft: false
---

It exists. The quiet hum of the sinew-like wires connected to a dim bulb was the only noise encapsulating the small space. The air is heavy. It stared deep into the abyss. Complex arrays of light are captured by the retina, giving way for the cerebral machine to develop an image of the fleshy structure superimposed in space. Horror is held captive. Mounds of hair imitating patchy weeds clump at the roots, straying forward enveloping the face, screening the weak eyes. Through the mesh of black curls it stares back at itself. A pink blotchy surface spanning the nerves is echoed. Pale limbs sprawl off the central engorged nexus of flesh, spreads of hair encompassing the whole. Hideous skin folds drape the figure. The sight blends and morphs into one whole, parts malformed and skewed. It is a disgusting sight. The mind paints the figure, imposing its imperfections as it pleases. The reflected shape is all too familiar. It is one the creature has known for a long time, yet it leaves it uneasy. It is silent. There is nothing to say, it has ruminated the ideas of being before, but has figured it has never amounted to much.  The only thing the mind can muster is vivid feelings of regret and cynicism, rolling into centre stage. It welcomes the thoughts, some would suggest it to be learned helplessness, but the creature argues it is no more as rational realism. *It has always been this way.* There had always been something wrong. Content is always out of reach. Belonging is remote, foreign. 

Much owed to Schopenhauer, the creature sees time as relegated a spot in the mind being no more than a concession of embarrassments which have spanned the past, impose themselves onto the present, and block the future. Nothing gets better. It is on its own onus to improve, but fear strikes the conscious like a hegemonic force of god. It wants nothing more than acceptance, but the beast has constructed a path of self-delegation in the realm of pain. The white yokes of the eye glaze themselves in tears, the glassy exteriors breaking seal, rolling down the mottled skin covering the cheeks. Regret seeps into every pore, filling the wretched brute.

Regret is truly a spiteful animal. It tears at the strings of thought which hold tenderness, joy, and peace. It only leaves the host yearning to throw back the errors of the past and retroactively save themselves from torture. It brings with it a false hope of what could have been, *if only it could have been different, if only I was stronger.* Combined with cynicism it is the recipe for the wills death. The pain of regret safeguards the past from reconciliation, and the cynicism of the future poisons the present. The faults of the past weld together, creating a perceived helplessness of the future. 

The being stays dormant in the frame of the echoing pane.  The loathing has become a pagan ritual of sorts. It is a rite of self, an act to keep ones ego in reality. The creature feels indebted to maintain a realistic vision of its disgust. It is a hard feeling to communicate to others. The pain becomes obfuscated by fear of rejection into coded thoughts marked for removal. The consequences of misdoing are immense. The veil holding the true emotional nature of oneself is too thin to expel. It has the power to ripple the events of life still to come, and dull life is better than pained life.

It is evident that within every relationship is a reflection of oneself. Relationships are formed through mutual enjoyment, comradery, and interest, inherently shining the personality of the individual back on itself. What then occurs if one is not content with oneself? The creature knows the answer all too well, it is a deep seated fear of intimacy. Fear of forming intimate relationships out of known imperfection, and immeasurable self loathing. A sickness in the mirror. *I do not look correct, I do not think correct, I am not normal.* Fear of imperfections and liability being pushed to those it respects and loves are the greatest pressure. Fear to take a risk and jeopardize relationships, fear of not being good enough, and fear of isolation. 

It is much easier to sterilize oneself from desire of intimacy and maintain the allusion of healthy relationships than push deeper and risk the very lifeline of social being. The headache is worth it. The pain is worth it. The converse is unthinkable! It is truly the pit of the beast, one which is inescapable when tied with thoughts of inadequacy and hate. 

Of course, later the regret of past chances, moments where the status should have been challenged, moments where something should have been said, is amplified within the beasts heart. This is just a natural logical following to social isolation. It is a closed system, forged in steel and settled in concrete. The creature reassures itself that the others would not comprehend the overarching system of emotional rot which occurs within the misshapen flesh. It is it’s life story, and it is slowly sinking into a toxic bog of regret. It pays dues to its fate.

Time neither moves forwards nor backwards. The mirror enchants the consciousness. A daze of frustration and rage at the state of being follows senses of regret and cynicism. *I can still fix it, I have not succumb, I am better than this!* Emotions quickly become dominant at the site of insecurity, after all fear can quickly convert to anger, denial, and violence. The beast had quickly become disillusioned and enraged. In lightning pace, the meaty fist of the creature strikes the glassy surface of the mirror. The reflection cracked quickly after, splintering into fractured elements of glass ripping from the frame, exploding onto the counter, with the immediate area lodging inside the flesh of the knuckles. The creature had not as much as made a noise from its large mouth. It had felt right. It looked down at its hand, analyzing the mangled tissue decorated with glass splinters around the knuckles. Edges of the lacerated skin and meaty pulp began to form dark crimson estuaries, running down the forearm and dropping off at its elbow. The adrenaline combined with the warm eminence of its expelled vital fluids was oddly comforting, it had left the mind numb and everything had seemed to slow. The beast slowly went about wiping a majority of the surface of the shredded fist, the rest of cleanup was a chore for the next day. The air was stale. The glossy wall tiling shined back a dull peachy sheen, an optical ripple from the entity formed of tissue. The creature’s mind had returned to a state of mundane operation, forfeiting the mental psychoanalysis which the former mirror fronted. The world is dull. Currents of colours melt into a dreary grey palette. *Is this it? What had gone so wrong? What is the point?* Everything is sickening. Cold pulses rush from the upper limit of the spine down through the chest, settling in the pit of the stomach. The creature quickly shifts in its disgusting state, aiming for the opening of the room. It is time to sleep. Everything is uneasy. *It does not matter, do not trouble yourself with such things.* It is hard to inspire value in superficial, material goals. There is greater focuses to pursuit time into. The truth that the creature sees the little time in the span of a human life. It does not wish to be silent, caving into the reflection, accepting fate, but does so out of fear. It wishes the cessation of its consciousness quickly, finding any way to pay the time towards death. 

Who can it confide in? It has only truly known itself. It is a rotten state to fall to dialogue within ones own head. It is a losing game. Once a stubborn mind is set on objective, sickness encapsulates any valid argument, shielding worldview from response. It has filled its mind with a world of platonic ideals. Within the system it desires conformity, it wants to strive for perfection, actualization of the form of a good man. In this actualization there is pain, alienation, and forgiveness, ideals which it does not accept. It can never forgive itself. It wishes its greatest sins upon itself. Slowly it has sank over the years, once being the shining example of a future on track, now it sees nothing but a world in which the meek suffer. A sinful world which isolates the weak. One it unwillingly participates in out of fear. In the creature is a shell of what was goodness, hope and compassion. Now lays a cynical disfigured bastard, unloved and with desire to be left alone. Slowly, it had made its way to bed, fingers bleeding from the wounds succumbed to the glass terminal which echoed its hideous reflection. The wound did not hurt. Nothing hurt. The body was numb. The beast had never hurt a soul except his own, yet the best had gotten to it, the rage had taken an outward turn onto the physical. It steadily lowered into bed, wrapping its sliced appendages in a hand towel to prevent the internals from directing more blood onto his fresh sheets. Peace was coming. Sleep was near.  It embraced thoughts of dreamless slumber, hoping that the existence of its emotional pain would dissipate into the abyss of night for relief. Temporary peace was within sight, enough to ward of torturous thoughts for some hours. It was content.