---
title: "Die Angst an Sich"
description: "bodily confessions"
date: 2022-04-21T19:43:39-04:00
author: "Ioannes Šubić"
featured_image: "/images/dieangstansich/featured.jpeg"
tags: ["body", "mind"]
draft: false
---

I intend to talk a little about my anxieties, tribulations with loathing, and dissatisfaction with my state of being. I will leave it to you to diagnose my anecdotes as irrelevant to serious illness or not, I couldn't care less about the categorization of fake disorders from an equally fake manual like the DSM-5[^1]. I intend for this to be only the beginning of my confession and feelings, something I'll keep building on as I write.

I'll begin with a short picture of myself as I am now. I am 19, 6'2", and ~250 pounds. For an easier visual, imagine a man so well graced by God that he has the phenotype of an 1840's Austro-Hungarian grain serf but the mind of some self-hating homosexual. It may sound like a joke but I see myself no different than a big beast. I have felt physically and mentally unlovable for virtually the entirety of my life. I have bottled up all of my anxieties within myself until writing these notes. Never had I gone to someone for emotional support for issues of my anxieties. My problems have been isolated to only myself. Not a day has gone by without the it floating through my head. I have always been quite reclusive and keep to myself much of the time anyway. As of writing this, I believe myself to be living the lowest point in my life. I have been flooded with the dread of fleeting youth and contempt to the point of breaking. Im not going to sugar-coat my discontent with my situation, it keeps me up at night. Hopefully below you can empathize.

Growing up I've always had a lot of doubts about myself. I've never been confident or felt like I've had much to offer. I'm not good-looking, I'm reclusive, I am not particularly charming, and emotionally unavailable. I feel like the doubt and hate on my current state is all-encompassing, but mainly focuses on two parts, how I look, and how intellectually competent I am.

In the realm of the body, I feel like I am enveloped in a skin which is not mine. For as long, as I have had memories I remember not being comfortable with my look. Something had always seemed off, miscalculated, and misshapen. I would stare back at my host in the mirror and become sick. Many times I have had staring matches with the bleak reflection, but never once have I won. I have always personally felt a desire for an androgynous/feminine-like appearance since a young age, but the multitudes of doubts on the matter have always made it feel extremely unrealistic. The last desire of the overly conscious is for their fears to be validated in physical contradiction. My body is fit to be nothing more than a towering beast, suitable for an Italian bodega owner, but far from androgyny. Even writing about it urges me to want to recoil at the imagery of someone of my state having such thoughts. I fight with this inner contradiction of mind versus state every day, and I find a deep psycho-sexual disturbance in it. Many days I dismiss it as nothing more than a perverted product of the combination of contradiction and desire for normalcy, but many times I feel as if I cannot deny my true burning desire of being. It is a constant struggle, one which feels like an inoperable tumor. I am forced to rescind my desires and digest an early death sentence. As of now, I feel I have crossed the initial waves of spiteful revolution and have majorly succumbed to my fears. I no longer cry, but accept that the reason for my undoing is nothing other than my own actions and I will atone for them until I die. Hopefully, sooner than later, the weight of regret only pushes me further toward the desire of my end. I dream of non-existence. 

In spite of my great anxiety on the subject, I have always tried to find time to humor it. Such states of mind must be concluded with the fact that they cannot be contended rationally but as only fear. My cope with the general fear is an ironic and comedic reclamation of everything that I hate about myself. One that is only known to be ironic by me. Being stuck up, publicly miserable, and reclusive are not socially desirable traits, so one without the luxury of physical excesses quickly learns to bottle feelings and reject their humanity. It is much easier to repress thoughts of social discomfort and joke in self-deprecation rather than confront peers and risk isolation. This may be a projection of some deeper seated security, but I have always had a problem with confession, especially to friends. Lermontov says well about this in *Hero of our time*, when he writes that *"One of the two friends is always the slave of the other, although, often, neither of the two admits this to himself."*  I have always seen some truth in that quote. Regardless of the levels of a friendship, the vulnerability one puts oneself in for momentary understanding and comfort is a weak act of slavery, almost sort of an emotional debt burdened by the listener which you atone for later in the form of regret. It is one of the many reasons I do not wish to talk to others personally about issues regarding my troubles. Weakness in search of comfort is extremely dangerous, it is a state of mind susceptible to the greatest delusions. I desire greater connection, but find myself unable to make the jump at the risk of falling. There is an almost poetic irony in the men I call my friends, which I would not trade anything for, juxtaposed with my inability to accept them emotionally as aides. But such is the mind polluted by the body. 

It has caused me deep troubles my entire youth and cripples my very thoughts to this day. I have had a desire to change, but deep-rooted fears of social isolation, fear of deviation from my current state, and loathsome regret of the past keep me from pursuit. In addition, the great irony of desire is that it is a disease that seems so close to curing but seems to stay mutating one step ahead. I believe the goal will never be reached. While lazy, I am still an obsessive perfectionist looking through the lens of criticism, and the absence of judgment is alien to me. Some would call me a defeatist, but I am a pure realist. I have condemned myself to this way of life no matter what I had been given in terms of physical appearance. I hate myself deeply. I secretly wish for the demise and undoing of everyone better than me, for no other reason than guilt-ridden spite. The thoughts of myself in my mind puncture deep like steel rods. I am alone in this pain. I fear truly expressing my feelings both because of the internal disgust I feel towards the thoughts and because I fear rejection from my closest confidants. Burdened to be tortured by my own psyche through pure negation of my weak will to change. I'm tired, alone, and fully nihilistic. I had gotten fucked anally by the supernatural but had not tried to stop it and improve. Because of this, my suffering feels deserved. 

The other notion of my insecurity is my fraudulent complex. Many times I have felt like I'll never meet up to the portrayed standards of myself. Just like Dostoevsky's underground man, I am plagued by a sickening overanalyzing consciousness. One which does not rest even at the finitude of my existence, looking for more to criticize about my state. Solutions and desire for change are not made, because my mind is too cynical and wicked to allow for the virtues of passion and justice to take reign of my body. In other words, the emptiness of my desire is corrupting in itself, *an sich*. I have deep interests in the humanities in sciences, but never feel good enough at them to want to talk about them openly with even the slightest authority. No matter what marks I were to get (Which is *wholly irrelevant*[^2] to intellectual capability, and yes, I will die on this hill) or "praise" I receive for my work, I feel like I'm just scamming, bullshitting, and frauding my way through academia and I'm not even close to as intelligent as peers. If I were to categorize myself at all, I would label myself as "crafty" or "deceiving" before the label of intelligent. I spend my days surrounded by the intellectually competent and see myself fading in their all-encompassing knowledge, but they seem to be unaware of the fact that I do not match. It has always confused me. 

Much in the same way as my physical anxiety, the fraudulent complex reigns. Labels of "intelligent" or "funny" only reinforce how one ought to act.  It becomes a role, beginning as something faulty perceived as an achieved role, which slowly shows itself to become nothing more than ascribed unless reinforced through conscious action. I find myself locked in a state which forces me to consciously reinforce the roles attributed to me to fit socially and not face rejection. It causes a deep resentment of self as a fraud, cheat, and scammer. I am no different.

In the collection of all these thoughts, I feel no need to defend myself. I feel indefensible. My esteem has never been high, and as of now, it is at its lowest. I had always been indifferent to my issues, pushing them to the side as delegations for the future. My young teenage years were filled with denial of fact and obfuscation and delay of solution. Now, leaving my late teens, It has become extremely evident that youth will quickly leave my grasp, and have wasted many years of intended preparation. It feels tragic. I am now too enveloped by my fear of isolation that I refuse to change and watch spitefully as people dealt a good hand live the dreams of what I desire. I still understand my inability to change as the main fault, but life seems so unfair. Had I been born differently, the dramatic change it would have made in my life. What if I had been born and developed in a way that allowed me to stare back in the mirror without feeling sick? What if I had been born and developed in a way that allowed me to confidently press my intelligence to a reasonable extent? I am not the one to be superstitious, but it almost feels predetermined. I was intended to be a sickly, two-faced man. One which did not get from life his desires, how minuscule or grandiose they were. I don't intend for this to read as a story of pity or mercy, so please don't receive it that way. One must realize the actions which are out of his control and the ones which he should strike at. I am too wicked and weak for such endeavors. I rescind my right to change. 

[^1]: While I'm sure it's useful for extreme neurological illnesses, its credibility is really tarnished in my eyes when it starts throwing around social norms as signifiers for mental illness. Also, I don't believe it is good to categorize neuro-divergent groups by stereotyping them into illnesses that should truly be case-by-case instead of based on arbitrary set symptoms.

[^2]: The modern post-secondary schooling system is a farce. I have seen many of my intelligent friends make this overt supposition that they are prestigious and one should take pride in these institutions. It is laughable but also sad. Grading has no basis in objective intelligence in its modern formations, and public universities are bloated institutions. It is, for this reason, that many great minds of the day weren't created in lecture halls but home garages. They are nothing more than diploma shops and doctoral vendors now.