---
title: "Glasshouse"
description: "notes on perception and desire"
date: 2022-09-01T13:00:00-0400
author: "Ioannes Šubić"
featured_image: "/images/glasshouse/featured.jpeg"
tags: ["body", "mind"]
draft: false
---

There is a striking feeling that hits at the cusp of adolescence where any idealistic view of one who notices their own inconsistencies beings to crumble exponentially. When I was young I did not expect to feel, or be, the way I am now. Grave reality hits those who believe they “have time” to construct their view of themselves. The truth is it comes quickly, and construction of the experiences that make you who you are both physically and mentally compile quickly at little regard of your guidance. The subconscious works separate of desire for the most part, and influences without note. I believe the only escape from the deteriorating confidence of oneself is through acceptance of fact or delusional inflation. I choose neither. I feel too entitled to something better, yet too conscious to allow myself to live repressing thoughts in search of fake grandeur. I am stuck in a state which I will never find peace in. I sit with intense feelings of contempt, and find no way of capturing my desire. 

So what does it materialize to? What actually does this feeling of bodily and mental contempt look like? It is like an uncanny resemblance of a mirrors reflection, a simulacrum of the familiar but which only disgusts the pallete. I have "known" myself for a long time, but only truly understood my motivations for so little. I had never policed the subconscious, and upon discovering its state, have become disgusted with who I am. I feel a metaphysical condemnation on me, waiting for it to be executed by whatever my fate holds in plan. It leaves me ill, I feel it in my chest and throat, congestion and condensed fear. It leaves physical symptoms, I constantly feel like I am rotting, my flesh feels heavy on its bones, my hands cold, and stomach sick. There is a deep feeling of social permanence, a feeling of isolation and alienation which is glued to my skull. Feelings that I will never be enough for another. It is extremely hard not to see people, living lives not so different to your own, with some parasitic envy. Behind a couple inches of flesh and bone, my mind lays. I know it is fairly similar to the people I see, yet is plagued by difference. Its plagued by a feeling of fear-driven isolation and alienation, with uncountable desires muted. 

Alienation creates conditons for much darker parts of the psyche to take fruit. As I've written before, it is a recursive failing, one which only gets worse over time. It feels unhelpable, it is not something you disclose to confidants and is something one does not even want to disclose to himself. It is soul-crushing. As social animals it leaves the deepest scar, the feeling of being undesired is cancerous. I reckon companionship is not for everyone, yet creation was wicked enough to implant the desire for love in everyone. It is the ultimate social reassurance, a mending of complimentary parts. It is as elusive as a drug. Its one condition, is that one must make peace with oneself before seeking it. A certain confidence and self-assurance is needed, one which does not come naturally, but is built over time. An alientated mind, one which forms enemies with the perceived other. In this state the mind can never prepare itself to accept reality for what it is. 

All troubles stem from the inability to let go of desires that are out of reach. There quickly becomes a sick and obsessive fascination with what could have been, and what possibly can still be. It leaves my awake at night, sometimes in an elaborate scheme of torture, dreaming of worlds where I am ideal, other nights it leaves me antagonizing myself, picking skin off my knuckles and wanting to scream. But more than anything, it breeds a special hatred. One I feel for nothing else in this world. I am a peaceful soul, I’d never hurt a fly, yet this hate strikes myself. I wish only the worst, and sometimes the overbearing load of the hate on my hubris directs a general hope for misfortune on others. It is a childlike desire for retribution for my shortcomings, even if I am aware I am to blame for my failings. I assume it is the natural reaction of one with my feelings. A miserable sod is sure to direct his misery onto others.
